[SOUND] So now we're going to talk
about Python as a programming language.
You probably noticed that
I'm wearing a sorting hat.
The reason I'm wearing a sorting hat
is that where I work at the University
of Michigan School of Information, we
are in a building called the North Quad.
And you can look it up on Google and
find a picture of it if you like.
And I think it's designed
to be like Hogwarts.
It's got a little center,
it's got this outside bit,
it's got a really cool cafeteria that
looks like owls might fly through it.
And so we moved to this a few years
back when I started teaching Python.
And I was teaching my very,
very first class in this building,
which we've sort of lovingly called
Quadwarts, because it's North Quad and
we thought it was kind of like Hogwarts.
And so, I'm joking, and
I wore my robes to class, and
I said welcome to Quadwarts,
and you have to wear your
robes every time to class,
and I was being funny.
And I said okay, it's our first class,
we're teaching Python, and
let's do a sorting ceremony.
I didn't have the sorting hat back then,
so I have a sorting hat now.
And so, that's cool.
And I'm like,
I think I'm going to be in Gryffindor.
And they told me, the students said
that I couldn't be in Gryffindor.
And I'm like,
why can't I be in Gryffindor?
Everybody wants to be in Gryffindor.
And they told me that
I was teaching Python.
Python is like a programming
language that's based on a snake.
And even worse, my name's Charles
Severance, and I'm like Severus Snape.
And so they basically told me
that I had to be in Slytherin.
And so since then, I've bought many
Slytherin items, I got Slytherin wands,
when I graduate,
you'll see my Slytherin wand.
I got a sorting hat, so you'll see me
drinking tea throughout the class,
from my Slytherin cup and so I guess
I'm just doomed to be in Slytherin.
I don't know if that means I'm a good guy
or a bad guy, or a good guy that seems
like a bad guy or bad guy that turns
out to be a, right, it's a lot of book.
So, the whole thing about being in
Slytherin is that you can talk to snakes
because you can talk this weird
language that others don't understand.
Python's like that.
Python's a language that
most don't understand.
You, of course,
will begin to understand it.
It's a weird language, it's strange,
it's not easily understood by others.
We call ourselves Pythonistas.
And Guido van Rossum, over 20 years ago,
invented this Python language
that we have grown to know and
love, and has become so important.
And while I'm going through
all this like snake stuff,
it turns out that that is not at
all why Python was named Python.
Python was not named for
a snake even though we use
the snake motif all the time.
It turns out that what Python was named
for was Monty Python's Flying Circus.
And the reason was is that Guido was
trying to capture an air of play.
Most programming languages in the 80s
when Python started were very,
very serious, and very complex and you had
to be really serious to figure them out,
a lot of math geniuses.
And Guido thought, I could probably
write a programming language that
wouldn't be that hard,
would be fun actually,
would be enjoyable to use, but
let's not make it bad.
Let's not make it weak,
let's make it both powerful and enjoyable.
And so that's why Python turns
out to be such a perfect language
to use as your first programming language,
is that it's designed
to be your first programming language but
it's also powerful.
So many times you build a first
programming language that's weak.
And not capable of doing a lot of stuff.
But Python has this wonderful,
easy to learn and powerful and useful.
And so there we are.
Welcome to being a Pythonista.
Now. As you learn Python, remember,
you're talking to a snake and this is
a language that you don't already know.
You are going to make lots of mistakes.
And the computer is going to seem
to judge your mistakes harshly.
You will learn the word
"syntax error" a lot.
And, if you're like me, I think back to
the first time that I was programming.
I was typing stuff on cards, and
you'd bring your card deck up and
you'd hand it to the computer.
And you'd read it through the computer.
And then the computer would come back and
say syntax error.
And sometimes it took several hours to
get back the results of your program.
You're going to get to do it in seconds,
but in the old days when I was young,
it took hours sometimes.
And then all you get back
is a syntax error and
when I first started programming, I grew
to kind of hate the creature that lived
inside the computer because I
thought that the creature didn't like me.
I thought the creature was
value judging my programs.
I mean, I would write this thing and I
think it's perfect and I would hand it in.
And the computer would say, syntax error.
And I'm like, huh?
What's up, syntax error.
And then I would like, okay, I'll make
my program better and here you go.
And it would say syntax error again.
And the thing that you're going
to have to learn is that,
syntax error doesn't mean that
Python thinks you're bad.
It is not a judgement of your
ability as a programmer,
it is not a judgement of your
potential to be a programmer.
Syntax error means Python is lost.
You are learning Python's language
because Python can't learn your language.
You're smarter than Python.
We can teach you.
You can learn, but Python can't.
And so when it says syntax error, even
though you feel like it's a rejection,
syntax error simply means
that Python is lost.
It just doesn't have really friendly
words when it says it's lost,
it just goes syntax error, which
literally is exactly what's happening.
Your syntax is not something
that Python understands.
So just understand as you go through
the next couple of weeks that you will be
frustrated.
It's not because you're a bad person,
it's not because you're never
going to figure it out.
You will figure it out and
you will get it.
And you have to sort of trust us as
we go through the first few weeks and
learn the basics.
And then as we connect
the basics together,
then this thing will
make a lot more sense.
I remember when I was first learning to
program, I would be like, lost, lost,
lost, lost, lost, oh wow, I love this.
And I expect that many of you will go
through that exact same feeling so
you have to trust us.
So up next, we're going to actually talk
about the Python programming language.